:rocket:@Igor Zamlinsky:: this is probably the most important thing in #general I have a communication protocols v3 pinned in the channel.  Please review that. 
-- I'm an excellent team player, communicator, optimist, and great problem solver. I believe /somebody/ will inevitably build these devices, it might as well be us. 

If you're concerned about the viability I believe either (or both) of these project can provide both an exciting lifestyle, and justify valuations so large they will seem abstract at times.  I know consumer motivation, demand generation,, merchandising, distribution and cloud, os, all that. Plus we have a Jay (he's the cyber-equivalent of a "hulk" in the avengers), and I do'nt know about you - but I know a few hundred other /friends/ who are just as smart as him but in fewer and more specialized  fields (both technical and not).  So when I get stuck, I can usually punch through it -- I'm also good at sales, meetings and enjoy that. 

So I think we should have a chat and be honest about our skills, put the ego's aside, and just work through what we know, and what we don't -- tell me, and I'll solve that and design an interface. I'm a fixer, who works best under pressure, my trail name is "rocket" handle: rr0kk3tt because I'm really fast and once i get moving there's no way to stop it. 

I understand basic electronic design, it's just not something i've done commercially. I could probably build this (not well), I'd like to collaborate with somebody (maybe multiple people) to make an awesome product. I don't think it will be hard, in fact I intend to make it look easy.  

I think between our mutual friend networks, forums, etc.  .. we both know a lot of smart people who will check our work as we go, these are fun projects and people will want to help.   Promotion wise, the optics of my lifestyle make me the person most people want to live vicariously through (I'm a digital nomad//travelling ethical hacker) --  I'm not a white hat, more "cream" or "eggshell" .. white hats follow laws, I will install a government I want and rewrite them.  I have a PR company who helped design this image. I have a lot of cheap-fundable gimmicks to make this blow up .. build massive customer bases. 

When it's easy to get an answer, or at least find out who to ask a question, worst case - we/I ("yei")  hire-pay them. online forums, offer incenitivization to the developer, "Type 3 Fun" (/:the harder it is, the better;type 2. :mountain: mountain climbing: hard at first, but awesome at the end:, type1: pure fun, i.e. getting drunk with your mates on craft beer while blowing up landmines in cambodia with racing drones/  I'm quite good at puzzle solving.  i've been on many hacking teams, and i've got fresh ideas. i've developed an organizational hive mind model for fast asynchronous "chat-bot" internal tooling, we'll be running on something like that communication protocol (it's extensible)  -- look in #general. 

