Dear {{ORGANIZATION},

This letter is requesting your assistance, feedback and guidance on zoning and regulatory 
compliance issues related to a technology focused commericial agriculture project.  
We are interested in establishing our first facility within your jurisdicition and are seeking a 
conditional use approval permits. 

It is our intention to comply with all regional laws, and inspection requirements and due 
to the nature of what we are doing we are hoping to find the best "fit" city to partner with, 
as this operation could become quite large and provide both high paying jobs, and also both 
national and international awareness. 

I represent Elastic.Ventures a California S-Corporation established in 2015.  

Our company has spent the last two years developing 
an embedded system "robotics" that incorporates a series of sensors and cameras, combined with
Internet cloud monitoring and cloud-based Artificial Intelligence "AI" to create a high-
efficiency aquaponic techniques to grow flowers, herbs, vegetables, and medical grade cannabis.
We call these units "GrowPotBot" (it's an intelligent pot, that grows anything, indoors,
up to 6x faster than sunlight, with a usability factor similiar to an easy bake oven). This is 
state of the art in argicultural electronics and will be similiar to the types of systesm that
will eventually support human life on mars in the future. 

The controller units are currently in a prototype stage, and we now need to lease a facility
for large-scale testing/data-acquisition "training" and we expect that system will transition to a
large scale cloning and shipping of "verified genetics".  We are trying to avoid any disruption
to our operations once everything is operational, so the questionaire below outlines the concerns
we have identified. 

This is a particularly sticky subject since we absolutely intend to be experimenting with 
cannabis in addition to numerous other varieties of heirloom tomatoes, exotic peppers, 
poinsettias, and orchids to name just a few.  The intention of this system is to be sold at
retail both online amazon.com and major box retailers such as home-depot at consumer level
price points around $150 per unit and to have worldwide distribution by 2020.

This will our first facility, so there are many of unknowns. We would like to initially operate between
200 to 500 robotic units specializing in 5 to 10 different genetic crops, and then increase from 
there.  The systems themselves are intelligent and "learn" from eachother via ultrasonic 
communication (frequently altering their parameters, fine-tuning), so they need to be kept in close 
proximity to operate our control groups.  Additionally we will be intentionally introducing a
 variety of pests, and diseases in order to train the AI // optical recognition systems how to
identify healthy vs. non-healthy plants. 

The questions are as follows:

* What zoning areas are allowed for indoor growing and cultivation of plants (including cannabis?)
what type of restrictions are in place // enforced by your office? 

* What types of agriculture inspections, fire-safety, hazardous materials, etc. would we 
need to submit to?  We will be testing a variety of fertilizers, etc. including possibly 
producing (mixing) our own at a very small scale. 

* Our systems are highly efficient at using water and lighting, however we would like to be 
aware of any restrictions or concerns on water or power consumption? 

* We will be dealing with nutrient rich fertilizers, will there be any concerns with those being
disposed of within the regional sewage system. 

* Are there any restrictions on retail counter sales (of genetics such as peppers, tomatoes, 
and also immature cannabis clones)

* What we are doing is highly innovative, we would like to offer tours to interested parties, 
journalists, and possibly local schools, are there additional concerns restrict retail merchandise 
(both controllers units, and merchandise)
(NOTE: cannabis would NOT be included on a tour for people under age 18)

* What physical security requirements would need to be in place for the cannabis plants
beyond 24-hour survelliance and restricted access (key-fob). 

* Our facility will as a by-product produce some amounts of cannabis which will be sold as 
"bio-mass" to industrial producers of edibles, and THC/CBD-oils used in a variety of new personal 
care products collectively in the "micro-dose" category (containing only trace amounts 
of psychoactive chemicals).  These would be items including soaps, hand lotions and 
personal lubricants.  
(NOTE: it will also produce tomates, peppers, etc. which will be sold at local farmers
markets, hot-sauces, etc.)  If we are producing edible products, what additional inspections
and compliance will we need to submit to?  

** In all likelihood we will prepare any non-topical consumable products in a rented 
commerical kitchen rather than trying to construct our own.  However, if we can locate a
facility such as a warehouse and construct our own kitchen it would save in logistical 
costs.  Any guidance you can provide on this would be very appreciated.

Thank you in advance for your assistance with this questionaire.  I hope that this provides some 
insight into our operation, we are avaialble to answer any questions.   
We believe the technology we have developed will be "industry changing", and create in a 
new era of residential farming and within a few years will be well known worldwide.  Bio-diversity,
limited access to affordable healthy vegetables, and also improving the quality and diversity of 
farmers markets worldwide are just some of the aspirations of this technology. 
It is our goal to work closely with you and the community to ensure a mutually beneficial relationship! 

Sincerely,



PJ Peckham
Director of Operations




