Memo #Airstream Crash / Beta 


RE: 
  * (G) Geico Case #042580214 0101 045
        Attn: Region IV Claims
        San Diego, CA. 92150-9914
        520-546-7362
        Kory McClain kmcclain@geico.com
        re: Daryl Hastings 
        
  * (P) Progressive #
  * (F) Foremost 
  * (EV) Elastic.Ventures #Airstream
  * Megan Gann (Policy Holder)

Dear Geico *(Daryl Hastings)

I am the trustee (owner) for the Airstream #31337. 

Geico has a separate policy on the Airstream, underwritten by 
Foremost but purchased an administered through Geico. 

We are in the process of identifying the costs to repair. 
We will be notifying the trietary insurance Foremost,
which was sold via Geico. Foremost Truck & RV Policy ********94821
under "Brian A. Horakh"; 30661 Valley Center Rd. Valley center, CA.

As such, this letter addressed to Geico.  "What I'd want my 
insurance company to do"; Root Cause Analysis "RCA" methods are
used below as per NTSHA/DOT guidelines accident post morteum.

I look forward to a discussion prior to engaging counsel. 
This is a opportunity for collaboration to fix this process. 
We are planning to fix the trailer; and request this matter
be forwarded to an internal process improvement team within 
your organization. 

Please preserve any witness statements you may have, and will you 
please provide them for our review.  This is not a drill; but EV
is interested in recycling "crashed" trailers (or broadly
recycling); so we plan to purchase the salvage title or request your
organization make a donation to restoration committee based on how
you organizationally feel culpable. 

(Please bear with me, this is a work in process)

The primary conversation we are going to engage is Lane Position.
This was a designated passing zone.  The rear car driven by Ms. Gann
attempted to pass in the improper position (in the slow lane) on a
the Boseman Mountain pass in Montana.  EV Driver Ms. Woodfield; 
and a slow moving 12 axel tractor trailer towing an unknown cargo. 

Elastic.Ventures is requesting a secondary review of this case, 
and an opinion on what the driver "should have done"; as it pertains
to EV Autonomous "Self-driving" Trucks (towing caravans) and providing
assistance to long distance hikers and bikers beginning in 2020.

Please not - the trailer was not used in a commercial capacity 
at the time of the accident but was used as a portable home +office
for minimalist living. 

We are hoping for acknowledgement of 51% or more responsibility 
in this accident from Geico; and for at least 50% of the restoration
costs associated with this project to be paid by Geico.  As part of
the restoration; 

Geico will may branding "thank you" and awareness; data-feeds collected
by our "upcoming fleet" and research as it pertains to their business.
It is our goal to produce an autonomously driven trailer kit, and 
network of businesses which host them using the Airstream as our inspiration. 

As such; the plans to release this have accelerated as we decide how to
best proceed and we are trying to obtain an idea of interest.  We plan
to document the entire project fully and online, and create a fair and 
consistent method for collecting accident data (cell phones); placing 
them into the cars; using GPS data. 

When the robots are driving, all bets are off. A strategic relationship
with Elastic.Ventures will provide 'friendly' non-biased expert testimony,
and we would like to work with your innovation departments to 'upcycle' 
purchase and retrofit crashed trucks and caravan units to allow for 
'remote piloted' and 'ai assisted' driveless technology.

Evidentiary Support for Geico Driver, as majority responsible party
 * was in a designated 'passing zone' on Boseman pass; with signage (assumed)
 * accepted responsibility at the scene
 * was cited by an officer
 * was passing in, and was in an improper lane position,
    * committed improper passing manuevure (non-passing lane) 
        * following Ms. Woodfield passing manuever had not been completed.
    * illegally attempted to use the gap established 
        ^^^ durings Ms. Woodfield's safe & mandatory passing manuever
    * driving / passing in the truck lane
        * truck lane was reserved for Ms. Woodfield and EV Airstream, etc.
        * per NTSHA road-safety "rules of the road" [Driving & Lane Position]
        * following the completion of Ms. Woodfields passing maneuvere
    * blind passing (as it pertains to rules of the road)
        * blind passing (tailgating, and then attempting to pass illegally)
        * passing without the ability to see obstructions "tail gating" 
        * It is our position that 
        * Ms. Woodfield had not relinquished her position following overtake
            * this was not a 2 lane road; this was a designated passing zone. 
            * not sure what Montana rules on overtake "pass" are;                
              but I suspect (based on other states) it will have required Ms. Gann 
              to fully be in front of the Airstream; to be considered
              "less than 50% at fault" ... 
              is impossible in this situation because Ms. Gann was in improper 
              lane position; in a passing lane; passing illegally; with signage. 
     * root cause analysis "RCA" 
        * root cause analysis is used in NTSHA/DOT analysis of accidents; but are 
          guidelines 'problem solving patterns' to prevent future accidents. 
        * as part of the NTSHA/DOT implementation of RCA; a breakdown of causal 
          events ex: "and then this happened .. " into reactions; and triggers.  
        * necessary actions "such as attempting to avoid a collision" and a broader
          view "why were these vehicles in this position" model is employed. 
        * NIST estimates that 94% percent of all accidents are attributed to human 
          error; 6% are mechanical and environmental.  
        * I have not spoken with Ms. Gann; but needs to be a reasonable explanation 
          why passing in the slow was "necessary" which is used in RCA.
        * A driver not following the rules of the road; without any causal reason 
          would fall into a separate classification in terms of responsibility.
        * A driver who are tired, fatigued, speeding, road raging, drunk, 
          blind passing, texting are all subcategorized.
        * Further it is unlikely Ms. Gann could legally begin a new passing maneuvere. 
        * Ms. Woodfield would need to be fully in her lane position, she is required
          to return to that position as quickly and safely as possible. 
        * RCA: Ms. Gann blind passing; will be mostly (more than 51% causal) if we ask
          a DOT/NTSHA analyst. 
        * as a result; (EV's position) 
          * the safe manuever became unsafe resulting in the crash an attempt
          to correct, while at speed, on a mountain pass almost resulting in death.
         * root cause determination: 'improper lane position of Ms. Gann/Geico'
    * can be verified using:
        * gps, cellular data of the driver (we have two phones but need Ms. Gann data) 
        * google tracks that information, so does Apple.  We can request it. 
        * (the Geico app *SHOULD* track that information)
    
    * measurement of the vehicles (physics)
        * 
        * calculus: time is  = speed (can estimate speed)
        * how big was gap?  2.5x car+trailer lengths is "recommended"
        * Ms. Woodfield would have had "infinite time"
            * based on road conditions, to complete an overtake.
            * the moment Ms. Woodlfield assumed the passing position

* tl;dr - with this crash telemetry, eye witness statements that Geico driver 
in the improper lane position is at fault; a widely held opinion. 

Any statement to the contrary is simply false or lacks those material facts 
/ situational awareness. 

For this reason EV is requesting you obtain the other drivers cell phone data
for analysis; and that Geico could, as legally be entitled to request that data 
or to extract it from the other vehicle and will be requesting our council 
proceed with discovery requests and depositions. 

The rental car company may have this telemetry data as well (but since 
her car wasn't hit; they probably didn't keep it). 
A video simulation is important step in understanding what happened; and
is currently in development to illustrate; but for the telemetry to be accurate
we will need the GPS data from the Megan Gann; this will demonstrate that her 
position did not follow well established rules DOT NTHSA rules of the road
experts would agree that Ms. Woodfield was adhering to. 

Instructions for Google:
* Google: https://support.google.com/accounts/answer/3024190?hl=en

-- in that data we can also see if the driver was distracted, or texting.
At this stage; with proper phone analysis i.e. "does the Geico app track
this information"; what information about Ms. Gann is relevant? 

If indeed Ms. Gann is not at fault - what are the implications for our
insurance (again; Geico .. Ms. Ganns company; also insures the EV Airstream) 
through Foremost. 

If her insurance isn't going to pay; then Progressive needs to involve her. 

I am not an attorney. I am well studied in science and physics, digital
simulations and data formatting. 

In Australia if you're texting and in an accident it's always the texting 
persons fault (the government can force people to unlock their cell phone
or hold them indefinitely).  

Just like the speeding persons fault, the reckless drivers fault, 
missing a stop sign on a school bus.  It is absurd to think that somebody
should be held accountable for other peoples response to their actions;
that would be un-American. However behaving recklessly, aggressively, 
dangerously is justification for "Right to Stand Ground" which would 
appeal in Montana, there is a question of best venue for all parties. 

Regardless; there is a human cost to those 
decisions and fortunately everybody walked away unharmed. 

Montana is such a lovely state; we are requesting a pre-arbitration
meeting (un-arbitrated, but recorded) in Summer to discuss this matter. 

The purpose of the insurance regulatory framework operates is to 
behave as an reasonable disaffected intermediary between the parties,
hopefully Geico, Progressive, et al. all see this as
opportunity to engage in a constructive dialogue with EV about 
our mutual interests in a resolution to this matter.  

The Airstream is part of an R&D initiative related to other business
matters; and we may seek additional damages as it pertains to engagement of 
professional services / consulting to fix the item rather than total. 
Development of a secondary market "use" for bashed up trailers and caravans.

At this point EV remains focused on the salvage of the limited edition 
mission artwork inside of the Airstream, as they pertain to CyberStream 
development and developing a strategy to recover and restore our unit 
as a prototype for a commercial venture/internal sustainability initiative.

The loss in value to us has been significant due to it's riveted (instead of 
screwed) construction style.  The fabrication cost; and reasonable consulting 
time (which will likely be less than the replacement value).

https://coda.io/d/Airstream-Trailer-Beta_dYyWzR8IMeg/Welcome_suBl0#_luitg
^^^ This document is private; and a trade secret of EV.  We will share this 
with Geico after we have agreed upon attribution/ownership.   The repair
will be documented on social media; and Geico and Progressive should both
ensure 

I appreciate you do not want to accept blame, assuming we can't convince
you to work with us - what are the next steps in your process? 
(or does denying the claim terminate your responsibility in the matter?)
Please review. 
 
Federal NTSHA safety rules clearly state that licensed drivers 
must maintain awareness of the vehicles and surroundings around them. 
"Rules of the Road" that are codified in a Federal Safe Driving standard
as both drivers were out of state.   This situation was "by the book"

Because Ms. Woodfield had just passed a long commercial vehicle and
moved ahead to maintain safe distance in order to return to the slow 
"truck" lane; this is not optional on her part. 

She was signaling intent to return to the lane (with no intention 
to illegally stay in the passing lane),  achieved a safe distance 
to return to the truck lane and then proceeded with the maneuvere.

The word "impatience" describes the Geico drivers intent. 

In legal terms this means Ms Woodfields position was "reserved" as designated
by the rules of the road, and relevant statuatory signage throughout
the state. 

Road rules clearly state Ms. Woodfield must return to the truck lane.
Ms. Woodfield towing a unlaiden weight of 7,400kg aluminum riveted 
trailer is not allowed in the passing lane except to pass, 
(which had been done)
and she is required to follow the law and return to the "truck lane"

As such .. Ms. Woodfield has no responsibility beyond a failure to 
recover from an unplanned maneuvere as she was in the process of
compeleting a safely executed manuever, and the resulting crash 
occurs due to a car being "out of position". 

^^^ we need to concur with the officer confirming this.  

The maneuvere reserved the lane for Ms. Woodfield as soon as she was in the 
overtake position (passed the first truck).  Textbook Autonomous Driving.
If our auto-pilot system did what their driver did; we'd absolutely
be fault!! Geico driver accepted responsibility and was cited. Why is 
Geico claiming this is not their responsibility? 

Vehicle and celluar data (if reviewed) will indicate that
the faulty driver was performing an illegal passing maneuvere -- on
the incorrect side of the road; and would indicate the vehicle
positions. I believe witness statements about lane position also 
concur with this. Does insurance from Geico only insure drivers when
they are following the rules of the road? 

It is EV's understanding that since their car was not hit; the accident
is the Geico's drivers responsibility due to their improper lane position. 

According to this statement of Mr. Daryl from Geico -- it would mean that 
if Ms. Woodfield had not aborted the maneuver, and hit the Geico driver
resulting in a bigger problem.  Ms. Woodfields actions actually saved 
Geico a "ton of money on car insurance" by NOT hitting the other car 
(and generally attempting to avoid the accident) -- risking her and her 
husbands life in the process.  EV expects future communications from 
Geico to reflect that. 

Geico should accept responsibility; re-evaluating and partner with EV
to correct this. 

EV designs AI software systems and #human life, is very important
to us; as party of our commitment to employee safety. Attempting
to avoid the accident is always the proper decision, and sets a 
very dangerous precident for a future with potentially very 
aggresive autonomous trucks if they are expected to defend their
lane positions from impatient drivers. 

I'm quite certain Geico wouldn't want our friends at Tesla, StarSkyRobotics,
etc. to design our software to drive like the Geico driver and then 
NOT being held accountable? Go team USA! 

While the EV vehicle was piloted by Ms. Woodfield/EV at the time of the 
accident - no auto-pilot system engaged, if an auto-pilot system had
inference on.  The faulty driver was practicing "blind passing" 
which was both dangerous and irresponsible and that behavior 
is 100% of the cause.  Textbook case of "illegal lane position". 

If there had been a collision, between two vehicles it is important 
from the perspective to attribute fault. 

This feels like a textbook case of engineering, or explaining math
which is never a good idea.  

But back of napkin calculus tells us that we can calculate 
the time between the lane change; and the drivers speed -- 
Ms. Woodfield was using the proper signalling to the overtaken
truck when the Geico driver was in improper lane position. 

Mathematically speaking Ms. Woodfield had "infinite time" as the lead 
vehicle to complete her passing manuever safely once she
had moved into the lead position. "No passing in the slow lane"

I prefer cellular data; it's easier to prepare a 3d video to
demonstrate.  No version in time or space that this was not Geico
drivers responsibility as the state regulated insurer for the 
driver at fault.   

I further maintain that not knowing the contents of the other vehicle.
The best approach was to avoid the accident - not "plow into her"
Internal review says no fault to Ms. Woodfield; null notation
in employee file "it happens; let's just get it fixed".

We will be working with the remaining
parties to provide analysis and plan to pursue full remuneration the 
accident from Geico, plus professional expenses for the analysis.

3d models are expected to be rendered in another two weeks (backlog)

EV is requesting Geico consent, discovery requests will be incoming.
We will be requesting celluar GPS data from your driver for review
and will be sending you a copy. 

EV has preliminarily engaged legal counsel. It is our intention
to work with them to demonstrate Geicos responsibility. 

The approximate vehicle length of the truck and trailer 
is:
 * 23ft 7m tough Airstream Flying Cloud 23d carvan
 + ~0.5m ball hitch 
 + nissan frontier 2015 king cab (5.2m)
 + the midpoint: ..
    * ^^^ irrelevant; improper lane position.

There is a well known blind spot in this area surrounding any 
long vehicle, that is why the rules of the road state that passing
must be performed in the appropriate passing lane.  

This was dangerous; and could have cost my partners their lives.
EV is committed to raising awareness about lane positions and
improving sensor awareness "trailers with sensors" 
in an attempt to salvage our Unit.  We are inviting Geico to
participate and a plan is forthcoming. 

This position is reinforced with driver safety warning and signage
throughout the great state of Montana.

EV maintains the position that the lane was ours according all relevant
statutory decisions pertaining to the matter.  Geico is the primary 
responsible party.  We are working on a salvage plan as well which 
should be less expensive than totalling - it would be EV's preference
to proceed with the assumption that Geico is responsible. 

Sincerely,

Brian A. Horakh
CEO, Elastic.Ventures
+1 (347) 708-3850

------
EV Recovery Plans (work in progress)
https://coda.io/d/Airstream-Trailer-Beta_dYyWzR8IMeg/Introduction_suIQp#_luj1X

^^^ confidential, please execute NDA prior to access
http://bit.ly/elasticventures-sme-NDA

