https://elements.envato.com/license-terms

For fonts and add-ons, a Single Use is the installation of the Item on your device. The license starts when you Register the installation, and you can then use the font or add-on to create as many projects as you like, for as long as your Envato Elements subscription remains active. There are more licensing details for fonts and add-ons below.

For fonts and add-ons, a Single Use is the installation of the Item on your device. The license starts when you Register the installation, and you can then use the font or add-on to create as many projects as you like, for as long as your Envato Elements subscription remains active. There are more licensing details for fonts and add-ons below.

For Items other than fonts and add-ons, a Single Use is the use of the Item to create an End Product (requiring an application of skill and effort) in one of the following ways:

For an Item that is a template, the End Product is a customized implementation of the Item.

For an Item that is an audio item, the End Product is a sync of the music with an audio-visual or audio-only work that incorporates the Item as well as other things, so that it is larger in scope and different in nature than the Item.

For other types of Items, an End Product is a work that incorporates the Item as well as other things, so that it is larger in scope and different in nature than the Item.

The license starts when you Register your use of the item and the license is only valid if you complete the End Product while your subscription is active. Then the license continues for the life of the End Product (even if your subscription ends).

For all items you can have more than one Single Use, but you simply need to Register each use of the item.
Each license includes the right to utilize the Item through communication to the public (performance), broadcast, display, distribution, and reproduction, but only as a part of the End Product which you have created with the Item. In respect of of audio Items, read clauses 17 and 18 for special limitations on these rights.
